readme.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/icon-128.png" alt="mascot"/>
  <h1>Dopamine dealer</h1>

  <p>
    A tiny browser extension<br/>
    that limits the number of times you can access time-consuming websites<br/>
    in order to improve your ability to focus throughout the day!
  </p>
</div>

## Develoment (section from [initial boilerplate](https://github.com/JohnBra/vite-web-extension)) <a name="dev"></a>

### Getting Started <a name="gettingStarted"></a>

#### Developing and building

This template comes with build configs for both Chrome and Firefox. Running
`dev` or `build` commands without specifying the browser target will build
for Chrome by default.

1. Clone this repository or click "Use this template"
2. Change `name` and `description` in `manifest.json`
3. Run `yarn` or `npm i` (check your node version >= 16)
4. Run `yarn dev[:chrome|:firefox]`, or `npm run dev[:chrome|:firefox]`

Running a `dev` command will build your extension and watch for changes in the
source files. Changing the source files will refresh the corresponding
`dist_<chrome|firefox>` folder.

To create an optimized production build, run `yarn build[:chrome|:firefox]`, or
`npm run build[:chrome|:firefox]`.

#### Load your extension

For Chrome

1. Open - Chrome browser
2. Access - [chrome://extensions](chrome://extensions)
3. Tick - Developer mode
4. Find - Load unpacked extension
5. Select - `dist_chrome` folder in this project (after dev or build)

For Firefox

1. Open - Firefox browser
2. Access - [about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox](about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox)
3. Click - Load temporary Add-on
4. Select - any file in `dist_firefox` folder (i.e. `manifest.json`) in this project (after dev or build)

### Customization <a name="customization"></a>

#### Adding / removing pages

The template includes source code for **all** of the extension pages (i.e. New Tab, Dev Tools, Popup, Side Panel
etc.). You will likely have to customize it to fit your needs.

E.g. you don't want the newtab page to activate whenever you open a new tab:

1. remove the directory `newtab` and its contents in `src/pages`
2. remove `chrome_url_overrides: { newtab: 'src/pages/newtab/index.html' },` in `manifest.json`

Some pages like the "Side Panel" don't work the exact same in Chrome and Firefox. While this template includes
the source code for the side panel, it won't automatically be included in the dist file to prevent cross browser
build warnings.

To include the side panel for Chrome add the following to the `manifest.json`:

```typescript
{
  "manifest_version": 3,
  // ...
  "permissions": [
    "activeTab",
    "sidePanel" // <-- permission for sidepanel
  ],
  // ...
  "side_panel": {
    "default_path": "src/pages/panel/index.html" // <-- tell vite to include it in the build files
  },
  // ...
}
```

If you need to declare pages in addition to the manifest pages, e.g. a custom `app` page, create a
new folder in the `pages` directory and add the corresponding `.html`, `.tsx` and `.css`
files (see `options/*` for an example to copy). Then include the root html in the `vite.config.base.ts`
file under `build.rollupOptions.input` like so:

```typescript
// ...
build: {
   rollupOptions: {
      input: {
         app: resolve(pagesDir, "app", "index.html"),
      },
      output: {
         entryFileNames: (chunk) => `src/pages/${chunk.name}/index.js`,
      },
   },
}
// ...
```

#### Styling

CSS files in the `src/pages/*` directories are not necessary. They are left in there in case you want
to use it in combination with Tailwind CSS. **Feel free to delete them**.

Tailwind can be configured, themed and extended according to the [docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/theme).

#### Internationalization (i18n)

To enable internationalization set the `localize` flag in the `vite.config.base.ts` to `true`.

The template includes a directory `locales` with a basic setup for english i18n. Enabling i18n
will pull the name and description for your extension from the english translation files instead
of the manifest.

Follow the instructions in the [official docs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/i18n#description)
to add other translations and retrieve them in the extension.

If you don't need i18n you can ignore the `locales` directory until you need it, as it won't
be copied into the build folder unless the `localize` flag is set to `true`.

### Publish your extension to the CWS<a name="publish"></a>

To upload an extension to the Chrome store you have to pack (zip) it and then upload it to your item
in the Chrome Web Store.

This repo includes a Github Action Workflow to create a
[optimized prod build and the zip file](https://github.com/JohnBra/vite-web-extension/actions/workflows/ci.yml).

To run the workflow do the following:

1. Go to the **"Actions"** tab in your forked repository from this template
2. In the left sidebar click on **"Build and Zip Chrome Extension"**
3. Click on **"Run Workflow"** and select the main branch, then **"Run Workflow"**
4. Refresh the page and click the most recent run
5. In the summary page **"Artifacts"** section click on the generated **"vite-web-extension-chrome"**
6. Upload this file to the Chrome Web Store as described [here](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/webstore/publish/)

Commit message:

Add firefox addons submission instructions

readme.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/icon-128.png" alt="mascot"/>

  <p>
    A tiny browser extension<br/>
    that limits the number of times you can access time-consuming websites<br/>
    in order to improve your ability to focus throughout the day!
  </p>
</div>

# Dopamine dealer

Dopamine dealer is a Firefox extension that enables you to set a list of websites you want to spend less time on.
Contrary to other extensions, it does not only check the overall time you can spend on these websites,
but also limits the number of times you access them every day.

The goal is to enable you to avoid context-switching behaviours that take you out of focus. Enjoy!

## Develoment (section from [initial boilerplate](https://github.com/JohnBra/vite-web-extension)) <a name="dev"></a>

### Getting Started <a name="gettingStarted"></a>

#### Developing and building

This template comes with build configs for both Chrome and Firefox. Running
`dev` or `build` commands without specifying the browser target will build
for Chrome by default.

1. Clone this repository or click "Use this template"
2. Change `name` and `description` in `manifest.json`
3. Run `yarn` or `npm i` (check your node version >= 16)
4. Run `yarn dev[:chrome|:firefox]`, or `npm run dev[:chrome|:firefox]`

Running a `dev` command will build your extension and watch for changes in the
source files. Changing the source files will refresh the corresponding
`dist_<chrome|firefox>` folder.

To create an optimized production build, run `yarn build[:chrome|:firefox]`, or
`npm run build[:chrome|:firefox]`.

#### Load your extension

For Chrome

1. Open - Chrome browser
2. Access - [chrome://extensions](chrome://extensions)
3. Tick - Developer mode
4. Find - Load unpacked extension
5. Select - `dist_chrome` folder in this project (after dev or build)

For Firefox

1. Open - Firefox browser
2. Access - [about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox](about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox)
3. Click - Load temporary Add-on
4. Select - any file in `dist_firefox` folder (i.e. `manifest.json`) in this project (after dev or build)

### Customization <a name="customization"></a>

#### Adding / removing pages

The template includes source code for **all** of the extension pages (i.e. New Tab, Dev Tools, Popup, Side Panel
etc.). You will likely have to customize it to fit your needs.

E.g. you don't want the newtab page to activate whenever you open a new tab:

1. remove the directory `newtab` and its contents in `src/pages`
2. remove `chrome_url_overrides: { newtab: 'src/pages/newtab/index.html' },` in `manifest.json`

Some pages like the "Side Panel" don't work the exact same in Chrome and Firefox. While this template includes
the source code for the side panel, it won't automatically be included in the dist file to prevent cross browser
build warnings.

To include the side panel for Chrome add the following to the `manifest.json`:

```typescript
{
  "manifest_version": 3,
  // ...
  "permissions": [
    "activeTab",
    "sidePanel" // <-- permission for sidepanel
  ],
  // ...
  "side_panel": {
    "default_path": "src/pages/panel/index.html" // <-- tell vite to include it in the build files
  },
  // ...
}
```

If you need to declare pages in addition to the manifest pages, e.g. a custom `app` page, create a
new folder in the `pages` directory and add the corresponding `.html`, `.tsx` and `.css`
files (see `options/*` for an example to copy). Then include the root html in the `vite.config.base.ts`
file under `build.rollupOptions.input` like so:

```typescript
// ...
build: {
   rollupOptions: {
      input: {
         app: resolve(pagesDir, "app", "index.html"),
      },
      output: {
         entryFileNames: (chunk) => `src/pages/${chunk.name}/index.js`,
      },
   },
}
// ...
```

#### Styling

CSS files in the `src/pages/*` directories are not necessary. They are left in there in case you want
to use it in combination with Tailwind CSS. **Feel free to delete them**.

Tailwind can be configured, themed and extended according to the [docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/theme).

#### Internationalization (i18n)

To enable internationalization set the `localize` flag in the `vite.config.base.ts` to `true`.

The template includes a directory `locales` with a basic setup for english i18n. Enabling i18n
will pull the name and description for your extension from the english translation files instead
of the manifest.

Follow the instructions in the [official docs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/i18n#description)
to add other translations and retrieve them in the extension.

If you don't need i18n you can ignore the `locales` directory until you need it, as it won't
be copied into the build folder unless the `localize` flag is set to `true`.

## Publish your extension

### For Firefox (Firefox Add-Ons)<a name="publish-firefox"></a>

You will need to register and enable two-factor authentication on [https://addons.mozilla.org/](https://addons.mozilla.org/).

Build and compress the extension, and compress the repo for inspection by the Mozilla security teams (since the code is transpiled, they need to look at the origial code):

```bash
yarn build:firefox
cd dist_firefox
zip dist_firefox.zip -r "./*"
cd ../
zip dopamine-dealer.zip -r "./*" -x ".git/*" ".github/*" "node_modules/*" "dist_firefox/*" "dist_chrome/*" "moodboard/*" dist_firefox.zip dist_chrome.zip
```

### For Chrome (Chrome Web Store)<a name="publish-chrome"></a>

To upload an extension to the Chrome store you have to pack (zip) it and then upload it to your item
in the Chrome Web Store.

This repo includes a Github Action Workflow to create a
[optimized prod build and the zip file](https://github.com/JohnBra/vite-web-extension/actions/workflows/ci.yml).

To run the workflow do the following:

1. Go to the **"Actions"** tab in your forked repository from this template
2. In the left sidebar click on **"Build and Zip Chrome Extension"**
3. Click on **"Run Workflow"** and select the main branch, then **"Run Workflow"**
4. Refresh the page and click the most recent run
5. In the summary page **"Artifacts"** section click on the generated **"vite-web-extension-chrome"**
6. Upload this file to the Chrome Web Store as described [here](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/webstore/publish/)
